# Speaking

## Parts

### Introduction and daily question (4-5mins)
### Describle a topic card (3-4mins) (一定要说满2mins)
### Two-way discussion (4-5mins)


## Part I  -- Introduction
1. Good morning/afternoon, my name is ..., can you tell me your full name, please?

   Good morning/afternoon, madam/sir, my full name is ...

2. What can/may I call you?

   You can call me ...

3. Where do you come from?

   I come from Wuhan, Hubei province. / I'm a local.

4. Can I see you ID?

   Sure, here you are. / OK.

* **`Keep speaking, eye contact, body language`**

### Fluency and Coherence
1. Speak at length
2. Hesitation, self-correction and repetition
3. Connectives
4. Disocourse markers: 
    * Oh 
    * well
    * you know
    * I mean 
    * To be honest 
    * Honestlt
    * Actually
    * Basically
    * Literally

### Lexial Resource
1. Less common words:

  * thin(用于动物，不用于人) -> lean(thin but strong and healthy), slim / slender / skinny(不健康的皮包骨头的) / bony (病态的消瘦，指老人)

2. Idiomatic vacabulary:
 
 * She is a coach potato.
 * He is a people / sociable / popular person.
 * I decied to have some fun and let my hair down.

3. Collocation

 * adj. + n
   
   * Black tea
   
 * v. + n
   
   * acquire / obtain / obsorbing knowledge
   * learn/studing + 学科
     
 * v. + prep. / adv.
   
   * relax => let my hair down / loosen up

### Paraphase(同义替换， 解释说明)

### Grammatic range and accuracy

* Complexd structures

  1. 定语从句
     
        * Where do you come from?
            - I come from Xian, and I 've been living there for 10 years.
            - I come from Xian **where** I 've been living there for 10 years. (where 前后都是两个完整的句子)

        * 人 + who / whom /whoes
        * 物 + which /taht
        * 地 + whrer
        * 原因 + why
        * 时间 + when

  2. 主语从句  

    * **What**(主语从句) attracts him is her shapely legs.
    * **What**(主语从句) attracts me most is **that**(表语从句) the view is very beautifual.

### Pronunciation

1. 咬舌音： th

    * teeth      ----   tits
    * think      ----   sink
    * I think this is a good thing.
    * There's a sea in the south of my city.

2. 辅音 /了/
   
    * usually / pleasure

3. 翘舌音 l
 
    * word / world / line / lake / girl
    * She is the most beautifual girl in the world.

4. 元音辨析

    * balck / bike / smell / smile

5. 连读

    * Tower of London
    * I've got a lost of reading to do
    * Do you like to get up early in the morning?

6. 吞音

    * Help me
    * I'm gonna arrive at five exactly please.
    * If she'd talked to the boss earlier, she would'nt have been fired.

### 答题思路

#### 思路1: Direct answer + reasons

* 表示原因：

    * beacause of / coz / since / as for /
    * The main reason is that...
    * The reason is why ... is that ..

##### Do you often go shopiing?

* shopaholic
* wind down / kick back / let off steam / loosen up / let my hair down 
* know about latest trend(适用于时尚流行)/information(看电视)/technology(科幻片)
* improve the aesthetic judgement (适用于艺术评论类)
* I've got a choice phobia. (airplane phobia害怕坐飞机)
* I cann't afford brand-name clothes.


##### Do you like snaks?

* foodie(s)
* I've got a sweet tooth
* sweets /  lollipops / marshmallows / chewing gum
* tasty / mouth-watering / scrumptious
* Eating snaks can stimulate my appetite when I'm under presure
* can pick me up if I feel a bit sleepy
* keep my hunger/burden at bay
* have toothache
* tooth decay
* put on weight
* lead to obesity

#### 思路2: Direct answer + examples

* 表示不同种类:

    * various / different types / kinds / sort of
    * a variety of

* 表示尤其是：

    * especially
    * in particular
    * perticularly

* 举例：

    * for example / instance
    * such as
    * Let me give you a few examples.

##### Do you like watching TW programs?

* **stand-up comedy** 脱口秀
* **variety shows** 综艺
* **reality shows** 真人秀
* documentaries
* TV series
* soap operas
* **suitcoms** 情景喜剧


##### How often do you eat vegetables?

* spring onion  葱
* genger
* eggplan
* **spinach** 菠菜
* **celery** 芹菜
* **broccoli** 西兰花
* **asparagus** 笋
* On my daily basis for sure. And I'm into different kinds of vegetables, such as/especially  spinach and eggplants.

##### Do you like reading?

* romances
* literature
* commic books
* manga
* fairy tales
* fantasy/swordsman novels

#### 思路3: Direct answer + details

* wh-模式

    * what
    * who
    * when
    * where 
    * How do you feel about it?

##### What do you  do at your spare time?

* Well, I usually do window-shopping with my collegues during our time off on the hign street, which is entertaining.
