### 脸型
* oval face 鸭蛋脸
* round face 圆脸
* chubby face 圆脸，胖乎乎的脸

### 发型
* long wavy hair 
* shoulder-length curly hair
* crew cut 寸头
* slicked-back hair 大背头
* salt-and-pepper hair 灰白的头发

### 五官
* sparking eyes 明亮的眼睛
* deep-set eyes 深眼眶的眼睛（外形上深，不指代深邃）
* soulful eyes 深邃的眼睛
* a prominent nose 高挺的鼻子
* a Roman nose 鹰钩鼻
* a flat nose/ a snubby nose 塌鼻子
* freckles 雀斑
* wrinkles 皱纹 = line
* pimples 青春痘
* a pair of dimples 酒窝

To be specific/ Specifically, he/she has a ( ) face with ( ) hair. What attracts/impresses me  most about him/her is that ( ).

### Feeling
* She has a pair of deep dimples when she **wears** a bright smile, showing her kindness to me.
* Although she's got dome wrinkles on her forehead, she still looks attractive.
* He's got a pair of **slitty eyes** (小眼睛) which makes him llok so cute.

## 内部

* Personalities 性格
* Achievements 成就
* influences 影响

### 性格
Through reading news, he/she **came across**/impress as a/an (1) person who can always (2).

### (1) -- 性格的词汇：
* low-profile / low-key 低调的
* high-profile / high-key  高调的
* industrious / diligent 勤奋的
* strong-willed / perseverant 有意志力的
* aggressive / ambitious 有上进心的
* approachable / accessible / affable 亲切的
* compassionate / sympathetic 有同情心的
* humorous / **hilarious** 幽默的 （= people person）

### (2) -- 解释性格
* **catch the eye of** public through his/her **works**(作品) rather than the **media hype**.(媒体炒作) 
* give me practical/constructive advice
* rebuild her own confidence after suffering from some ups and dwons.
* radiate/convey cheerfulness and optimism whenever I watch his/her shows.
* contribute/dedicate/devote/donate his/her money and energy to charities.

### 成就

* sb. always appeared on the front **cover** of the **most talked about** magazines.
* sb. was listed among Times 100 Most Influential People in the world in 2009.
* sb's been **nominated**（提名）and awarded **numerous accolades**（荣誉）over the past few years, for example...

### 影响

* sb. can always **send positive messages** to her/his audience/fans。 The most impressive sentence he/she in the news was that "The moment you're ready to quit is usually the moment right before a miracle happens". And I have to say it inspires me a lot.

### 总结
* In a word, I would like to meet her/him not only because (of) ... , but also because (of)...

# Topic card
Describe a restaurant that impress you.

You should say:
* Where it is
* What it looks like
* What kind of food it serves there and explain why you like to eat at this place.

### 餐厅
* **fusion-style restaurant** 混合餐厅
* **buffet** 自助餐厅 （cafeteria 学生餐，工作餐）
* vegetarian 素食餐厅

## 解题思路： 引入 -> 外部 -> 内部 -> 总结

### 引入
* When I'm looking at the topic, the first one that pops in my head/spring to my mind is (餐厅) which (地理位置).

### Location

#### 1. 方位
* is located / situated in

    the city centre 
    
    the downtown Beijing

    the suburbs

    outskirts of the city

    is somewhere off the beaten track 人烟稀少的地方

#### 2. 距离

* It takes me about/roughly 1 hour to get there by car.
* I spend roughly 1 hour getting there by car.
* It's within walking distance to ...
* **It's just a stone's throw away from ...**

#### 3. 频率
* So I normally go there on a daily/weekly/monthly basis.
* So I'm a regular there about once a week.
* So rarely/hardly/seldom go there, maybe aout once a month.

### 外部

The exterior of the building：

#### Height
* ... is a 20-storey build
* ... is a high-rise / low-rise / flat / office building
* ... is a/an unique / magnificent(壮观的) / innovative(创新的) skyscraper

#### Shape
* rectangular-shaped building
* the building is wrapped in glass on all side.
* It's a glass-wrapped building
* pyramidal-shaped building
* a square-shaped wooden house / log cabin

#### Surroundings 
 
In fornt of / Behind / Next to it, there is a (1) which (2).

* (1)parking lot : (2) definitely is a convenience for those who drive there.
* (1) fountain / flower bed(公园): (2) **to a large extent beautifies** the environment and attracts more people coming there.

### 内部 -- 总分结构

### 总
When you step into the restaurant, it's ...

* well-lit 明亮的
* dim 昏暗的
* spacious 大的
* tiny/cramped 小
* airy 空气流通的
* stuffy 闷的

### 分
#### Decoration
It's decorated/furnished in a/an (1) style with (2) and (2)

(1):
* simple 
* European
* pastoral 田园风
* Mediterranean 地中海风 [ˌmɛdətəˈreɪniən]
* noble
* luxurious

(2):
* a crystal chandelier 水晶吊灯
* lovelypaintings on the **plain walls** 白墙
* elaborate wall papers 精致的墙纸
* revolving doors 旋转门
* **French windows** which enable lots of natural light to cast to the room.

### 食物：总 -> 分 -> 最
It offers a great selection of dishes, such as (), (), and ().
And () is the reataurant **specialty**/**signature** (特色菜)is also my favorite. 

#### Chinese dishes:
* spring rolls
* steamed buns 馒头
* steamed stuffed buns 包子
* sticky rice dumpling 粽子
* **dim sum** 早茶
* braised eggplants with spicy sauce 红烧茄子
* braised pork with soy sauce 红烧肉

#### Japanese dishes:
* sashimi 刺身
* salmon 三文鱼
* tuna 金枪鱼
* octopus 八爪鱼
* tempura 天妇罗

#### Western dishes:
* spaghetti bolognese 意大利面
* macaroni 通心粉
* lasagne 千层面 [lə'zænjə]

#### Dessert:
* muffin 麦芬 = cup cake
* macaron 马卡龙
* waffle 华夫饼

### Service
* The serves(waiters/waitresses) are **considerate and enthusiastic**, which makes me feel like eating at home.
* The service is prompt(快速), I mean you never need to wait long for you food.
* What makes it special to me is **shoe-polishing service and fingernal beauty service** provided for the customers who are waiting outside for table.

 ### Price
* dirt-cheap / bloody cheap / economical
* reasonable
* expensive / pricy / costly
* What makes me excited is that if you've got a student card / credit card, you'll get a **20% off discount**.

### 总结
* In a word, it impresses me not only because (of) ..., but also because (of)...
